A NETFLIX SERIES
What are you looking for?
-What are you looking for?
-Dad's embalming equipment.
It probably hasn't been used
for two decades,
but it's supposed to be here somewhere.
Why?
Bingo.
Embalming is basically
replacing blood with chemicals.
We're not putting chemicals in,
just removing the blood.
You saw what happened to you
when you didn't get blood.
Yeah.
We'll drain the blood,
then we'll have a small supply.
Then we won't have to continue…
And then what?
Then we burn him.
The way he tried to burn us.
ARCHIVE 1992
HALLANGEN CASE
Bingo.
-There's nothing wrong, right?
-What threatens Hallangen Funeral--
You're bankrupt.
I can't do anything about that.
If you manage to pay off 30,000 kroner…
You didn't really think
you'd make 30,000
transporting an ordinary body, did you?
Thirty thousand, Odd.
What are you afraid of?
It can't be that bad.
Come on!
I'm trying.
Come on.
OVERDUE
Why the police car?
Because no one will suspect the police
of having a body in the trunk.
Where are you going?
I forgot the key to the crematorium.
Hello.
What are you doing?
Nothing.
Well, I…
I don't know what to do.
The bank is taking the house.
What?
Tomorrow.
But…
What about that trip to Sweden?
I guess it was too good to be true.
My conscience wouldn't let me do it.
-Hello.
-Hi.
-Early start?
Yeah, of course.
Should we go get
some proper coffee at the gas station?
We're going to need it today.
-I can get it.
-No, we'll go together.
-What do you want?
-We'll go together.
Judith? It's no problem for me to get it.
Hey, Arvid's case.
I'm so close. I'm this close now.
This close.
What's that smell?
-Judith…
-God, that was a ripe one, Reinert.
We'll go later.
By the way,
double cappuccino, two sweeteners. Bye.
What am I going to tell Rose?
You have to tell her the truth.
That we're moving tomorrow,
and I've been lying for weeks?
But you weren't lying.
Avoided the truth. It's the same thing.
You did what you thought was best
to save the family business.
But it's not about the business.
It's all about family.
No one dies in Skarnes.
There's obviously not a market here
for living off people's deaths.
What if you could get the money?
Yeah, but then I'd need a real funeral.
Not a fucking miser's funeral,
like Gundersen's.
A proper one.
Remember what Dad used to say?
It'll turn around.
But it didn't for him.
Rose worked late last night, didn't she?
Yeah.
At least wait until she wakes up
before you talk to her?
Yeah.
Okay, new plan.
Sverre is already dead,
and we need to get away with it.
But we also have the opportunity
to give Odd a funeral.
No.
I can help him now.
We can help him now.
Yeah, but they'll find
something suspicious, Live.
Who are "they"? The ER doctor is lying…
He's lying in the trunk.
And the police are behind the wheel.
There you are!
-Here he is.
-There you are.
Where did you go?
Did you have to go
to Kongsvinger for coffee?
Come in here.
Thank you.
Look at this.
This is an unsolved murder from 1993.
I suspected Live's mother.
I fucked up that time.
I should have listened to my intuition.
What's your intuition saying now?
Everything points to Live.
There's something she's not telling us.
Do you have proof?
Yeah, I have proof.
But not proof with a capital "P," no.
Yet.
I'm sorry I didn't
listen to you after you…
Skarnes police station, Marianne speaking.
Judith?
Yeah?
-Phone.
-Tell them to call back later.
You should really take this.
Take it.
Hello.
Yes.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah, thanks.
Reinert.
The doctor is dead.
-What?
-Sverre Hansen was found dead in his home.
Oh my God.
Something very scary is going on.
I'll deal with it.
-You're sure?
-Yeah.
Then I'll continue the investigation here.
-Odd.
-I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
Hallangen, Odd speaking.
No, I can make it in half an hour.
No problem.
Odd, I was working until 2:00 last night.
One moment. The doctor's dead.
-What?
-Dr. Sverre is dead.
You have to stop smiling when people die.
Yeah, but… I'm sorry.
-Yeah, it's Frode.
-Frode, it's Odd.
Hi, Odd.
I just got a funeral.
-Really?
-Yeah.
So this should all be fine, right?
Frode, are you there?
Yeah, I'm here.
You do realize that
you have to make money off this funeral?
Yeah, I can do that.
"Can"?
I will.
HALLANGEN FUNERAL PARLOR
Well, boys.
It's me this time.
Right you are.
-Hi, Reinert.
-Odd.
Where's Judith?
Judith is at the station.
-Lots to do.
-Yeah.
Finally.
Yeah.
It's kind of depressing
to think that doctors can die, too.
-Yeah.
-What's next?
Pyromaniac firefighters or
police officers who kill?
So…
Do we think it's suspicious?
No, why would you say that?
It's just nice to avoid
a trip to the coroner.
-This is a completely natural death.
-Yeah.
Male, 60.
Works a lot.
Comes home tired.
Maybe he sits down
with a glass of whiskey.
Feels ill.
Wants to go to the toilet.
Yeah. On the way there,
he keels over.
-And that's that.
-Yeah.
There's no point in sending someone
to the coroner
when it's obviously a natural death.
-In his sixties.
-Overworked.
Felt ill.
-We're not made of money.
-No.
-This isn't New York.
-It's not even Elverum.
Shall we get started?
Can you grab the legs?
Let's see.
Well, hello.
Rigor mortis hasn't even set in yet.
What?
Yeah, it means he's pretty fresh.
Suspiciously fresh, or…
No, he'll probably stiffen
-but not yet, as you can see.
-Right.
Nothing suspicious?
Nothing suspicious, no.
Well, what did the ER doctor say?
Sverre is the ER doctor. He's dead.
Yeah.
What did the EMTs say?
They must have noticed something.
Nothing unnatural about the death.
That's a bit odd.
Are you going to order an autopsy
for "a bit odd"?
If there's one thing
that ruins the budget, that's it.
Judith?
I've done a solid piece of police work.
Sverre Hansen died
during the night of an ailment,
in his pajamas, on the way to the toilet.
Nothing suspicious about that.
I just had such a good feeling.
What do you mean, "good feeling"?
Well, a bad feeling.
-Reinert?
-I can't do it.
Now we have--
Come in. Close the door.
We should never
have tampered with the body,
we should just have removed
the evidence. Fuck!
There's no evidence pointing to us.
No, but Judith will find something.
Sverre will be cremated
in a couple of days.
And so will all the evidence.
Live, I'm a police officer.
And I've killed a person
and covered it up
to make it look like a natural death.
-That's what has happened.
-It wasn't really you.
So who was it?
Are you trying to say that I'll be…
a monster for the rest of my life?
You're not a monster, Reinert.
You're not a monster.
If you are, then I'm a monster, too.
No. Of course you're not.
No.
Rei…
Yeah. Of course.
You only need me
when you want to get away with murder.
Number 43.
White-painted casket, solid pine.
We have number 33, made of birch.
It comes with foil, white paint,
or wood fiber. Lots to choose from.
Yeah, I… I don't know
what we should choose.
No.
No, it's not easy.
But Wenche,
I don't think we're here
to pick a coffin for your brother.
What?
No, you and I, we knew him.
He's been our family doctor
since the '80s.
I think he delivered me, actually.
And your brother wore
high quality clothing.
He lived in the nicest house
in Skarnes. Drove a Porsche.
And I could of course sell you a Toyota.
Yeah, or a Škoda, for that matter.
Yeah…
No. At the risk of repeating myself,
I don't think we're here
to pick a coffin for your brother.
He's already chosen for us.
Number 52 is made of
mahogany-stained cherry wood,
which gives it an exquisite finish.
This is the closest I can get
to your brother's Porsche.
That's who he was in life.
Who are we to say
he should be someone else in death?
'TIL DEATH DO US PART
I had to finish
what your mother and I started.
Hi. I think your brother has gone mad.
You see?
-You understand why we're going down?
-Oh, it's that one.
-That's what's up.
-Oh my God.
-Hi.
-I sold the mahogany coffin.
-You're kidding!
-No.
Yes!
Fantastic!
Oh, I'm sorry.
-Fantastic.
-Yeah, I know.
And not just the mahogany coffin.
Three hundred programs, lots of music…
The works!
-It's turning around, Odd!
-Yes, it is!
You little tadpole.
You'll have the nicest room
in all of Skarnes.
And you, you moldy old sock,
will look like a sleeping baby
-by the time I'm done.
-And that's my cue. Bye.
I understand it sounds weird
when I say it like that.
It just sounds weird, period.
Yeah. Fair enough.
What's up?
He's just still so limp.
-You see?
-Oh, right.
No lividity or marbling.
I tried to fold his hands, but it was like
folding spaghetti.
In my department we always say
that rigor mortis can differ a bit
from one person to another.
No.
Rigor mortis always happens post mortem.
When the blood starts coagulating
in the muscle, it goes stiff.
Not if the body was exposed to heat.
In Norway?
In November?
Should I report it?
To the police?
No.
I don't think so.
But
what if it's something suspicious…
that's happened?
To a 60-year-old workaholic?
Yeah, but still…
But, if you send him to the coroner now,
it'll be at least one,
probably two, three weeks,
until you get him back.
So you'll have to postpone
the funeral for a while, and…
you probably can't afford that.
Since we're going bankrupt.
No, I can't.
So…
Now you have…
an opportunity to save the business.
It's a shame not to take it.
You're right.
OTHER SIDE OF THE RIVER?
CAUSE OF DEATH?
You've reached the voicemail of police
officer Reinert G. Tisthamar in Skarnes.
Hi.
I just wanted to…
Well, I…
I don't only need you
to get away with murder.
Rose?
I have to tell you something.
-I didn't mean to…
-Then what the fuck did you mean to do?
-Don't follow me!
-I'm sorry.
Why the hell didn't you tell me?
Up until just now, I thought I could…
I don't understand
why you haven't said anything until now.
If there's something wrong with the body,
I have to report it!
I have to tell Judith! Fuck!
Hey…
I'm sorry.
Reinert! Hi.
-What the fuck?
-Live, what are you doing here?
What am I doing there?
POLICE STATION
-Are you positive?
-Yeah, I'm positive.
Something is wrong in Skarnes.
Funeral agent Odd Hallangen--
The brother of the woman…
The brother of the woman
who woke up on the autopsy table.
-Whom you declared dead?
-Yes.
I declared her dead, and I've taken
full responsibility for that,
but now I'm asking for permission
to have Sverre Hansen autopsied.
Why, Judith?
-Because I think he was killed.
-By whom?
-No one can hear us now!
-Hush! We'll do it here.
You can't just barge
into the station like that.
Odd realized it wasn't natural
and called Judith,
and as soon as Sverre is autopsied,
we're fucked.
Holy shit.
Yeah. And whose genius idea was that?
To let Odd bury the person we killed?
Just to keep that stupid business going…
-It's not the business. It's our family.
-Yeah, okay.
Can't you stop Judith?
Stop Judith?
Did you see that board?
Judith suspects you
for everything
that's happened in Skarnes lately,
and she doesn't even know the half of it.
You have to help me. To help us.
-What can I do? I'm not a murderer.
-Yes, you are!
Shit.
My whole career…
My whole life…
the only thing I wanted to do
was solve a murder mystery in Skarnes.
I can't bear that I'm the murderer
in that scenario, Live.
I can't take it.
I'm sorry.
Yeah, I'm sorry.
I really don't want to ruin this.
I love you.
-Odd?
-I love you too.
Odd?
Hi.
Can I talk to you?
What proof do you really have, Judith?
I don't have proof.
I don't have proof yet.
But I'll have it
if I can have the body autopsied.
Okay, Judith.
First, send the body to the coroner,
and then you can detain
Live Hallangen for 24 hours.
-Thanks!
-But this has to produce some results.
You won't regret this. Thank you so much.
So I felt I had to tell Judith.
Even if it means bankruptcy?
Yes.
Being able to live with myself
is more important
than the survival of the funeral parlor.
Maybe, I don't know.
I have to show you something.
You found it? Great!
Where did you find it?
Sverre had it.
Where did… Where did Sverre find it?
He didn't find it.
It was he who…
-But…
-And yesterday…
He…
Or…
I…
Were you involved in Sverre's death?
I didn't do it on purpose.
So what do we do?
I've already told her that…
I'm going to go and say I did it,
and maybe you won't
have to have him autopsied
and sell the house.
But…
Just go to Rose.
Wait. This time I'll do it the right way.
I wonder if I may have been
a bit rash when I called earlier…
I want him autopsied right away.
You don't need to have him autopsied.
Live…
I'm detaining you
for the murder of Sverre Hansen.
But, first, we're sending him
to the coroner.
I've already prepared him for the funeral.
Sverre's sister ordered the whole package…
That's okay.
I have to know the cause of death.
Send him to the coroner immediately.
Shall we?
Do I need to handcuff you?
-No.
-Let's go, then.
What's going on?
Odd?
-Sorry, I have to go to the basement.
-What?
I have to send Dr. Sverre to the coroner.
Do you have enough proof to arrest her?
-Kongsvinger wants to…
-I've only detained her.
And you can remind Kongsvinger
that they allowed me
to detain her for 24 hours
while I collect evidence.
No one has seen as much death as Odd.
So when he says there's
something suspicious about the body,
it makes me believe
I'll find the evidence I need.
The evidence I need
to arrest and charge Live Hallangen.
Live?
Dad was right.
About what?
I'm not worth it.
I'm sorry, Reinert.
Live…
let's get out of Skarnes.
Come with me. I can't do this alone.
You're the only one
who knows what this is.
Nothing will change,
even if we leave Skarnes.
Yeah.
We can stick together.
Reinert?
What's going on?
New testimony.
-Testimony?
-Yeah.
I'd like to check a couple of things.
Just go through a couple of points.
Yeah, okay. Go ahead.
Fuck!
He's being autopsied.
They could call at any moment.
So you have a guy
who's been sentenced to death…
In Norway?
Yeah, in the Viking Age.
Okay, what was he convicted of?
Asking too many questions.
Wow. What?
That's beautiful.
The condemned gets to choose
between three different rooms.
The first room is full of fire,
the second room is full
of assassins with loaded guns…
In the Viking Age?
…and the third room is full of lions
that haven't eaten in three years.
Which room is the safest?
The third one.
Lions who haven't eaten
in three years are dead.
What the fu--
Skarnes police station, Marianne speaking.
-Judith?
-Yeah?
It's the forensic institute.
Reinert, I…
We just have to wait, and then…
Reinert!
-God damn it.
-What's up?
You have to take this.
I have to go talk to Odd.
Damn it.
What are you doing over there in Skarnes?
I honestly have no idea.
First you send a body that isn't dead…
-What?
-…and then you send us an embalmed body.
Embalmed?
Yes, embalmed.
Odd?
Open the door!
How am I supposed
to find the cause of death,
when the corpse is embalmed,
drained of blood,
tampered with in every way--
It's impossible!
Odd?
Judith.
I know you're angry,
but I tried to tell you.
Tell me what?
That Dr. Sverre Hansen's sister
demanded the whole package.
-Whole package?
-Yeah.
Mahogany-stained cherry wood coffin,
300 programs,
lots of musicians, a full choir, and,
as you have probably guessed,
embalming.
Do you know what this means
for the investigation?
It's bad?
There's no point in doing an autopsy
when you've filled the body with…
Formalin.
Does that mean I can go on
with the funeral as planned?
Shut up, Odd!
You can go to hell!
Dear big brother.
I remember when you took me
camping for the first time.
You had made lists
-many weeks beforehand.
-Are you okay?
-Yeah.
-…and tent rods…
But…
-Do you think it's weird being here?
-…you didn't give up on me.
No.
-Not even when I got stuck in the bog.
-Yeah, it was…
Yeah.
You spent a long time pulling me out.
Even though
both our boots were full of mud…
There's something wrong with this picture.
Isn't there?
Yeah.
Very.
What are you thinking about?
What's wrong?
Nothing.
Subtitle translation by: